Document connectors and formats (#3127)
tenzir/vast: web/docs/understand/connectors/file.md

# file

Loads bytes from a file. Saves bytes to a file.

## Synopsis

Loader:

```
file [-f|--follow] [-m|--mmap] [-t|--timeout=<duration>] <path>
```

Saver:

```
file [-a|--append] [-r|--real-time] [--uds] <path>
```

## Description

The `file` loader acquires raw bytes from a file. The `file` saver writes bytes
to a file or a Unix domain socket.

The default parser for the `file` loader is [`json`](../formats/json.md).

> The default printer for the `file` saver is [`json`](../formats/json.md).

Author: What the printer? Does the same thing apply here?

> The default printer for the `file` saver is [`json`](../formats/json.md).

Reviewer: Created an issue. I currently does not, but I think it should.

> The default printer for the `file` saver is [`json`](../formats/json.md).

Author: Okay, I've documented the inference heuristics in d2b76f6e20.

Please resolve this thread if I got it right.

effectively gives the downstream parser full control over reads.

For the [`feather`](../formats/feather.md) and
[`parquet`](../formats/parquet.md) parsers, this significantly reduces memory
usage and improves performance.

### `-t|--timeout=<duration>` (Loader)

Wait at most for the provided duration when performing a blocking call to the
system call `read(2)`.

This flags comes in handy in combination with `--follow` to produce a steady
pulse of input in the pipeline execution, as input (even if empty) drives the
processing forward.

### `-a|--append` (Saver)

Append to the file instead of overwriting it with a new file.

### `-r|--real-time` (Saver)

Immediately synchronize the file with every chunk of bytes instead of buffering
bytes to batch filesystem write operations.

### `--uds` (Saver)

Interpret `path` as a Unix domain socket and connect to it.

## Examples

Read JSON from stdin via [`from`](../operators/sources/from.md) and convert
it to CSV:

```
from - read json | write csv to stdout
```

Read 1 MiB from a file `/tmp/data` and write the bytes another file `/tmp/1mb`,
blocking if `/tmp/data` is less than 1 MiB until the file reaches this size:

```

> load file -f /tmp/data | head 1 Mi | save file /tmp/1mb

Author: I think our strategy is that we write the documentation so that it matches the MVP scope.

For this particular use case, my hunch is that it's almost a 5-min thing to write an overload, right? Something like this:

```cpp
auto operator()(generator<chunk_ptr> input) const -> generator<chunk_ptr> 
```

# file

Loads bytes from a file. Saves bytes to a file.

## Synopsis

Loader:

```
file [-f|--follow] [-m|--mmap] [-t|--timeout=<duration>] <path>
```

Saver:

```
file [-a|--append] [-r|--real-time] [--uds] <path>
```

## Description

The `file` loader acquires raw bytes from a file. The `file` saver writes bytes
to a file or a Unix domain socket.

> VAST uses the following heuristics to infer the format based on the filename:
> 
> - If the filename is `eve.json`, use [`suricata`](../formats/suricata.md)
> - If the file extension is `ndjson` or `json`, use [`json`](../formats/json.md).
> 
> If none of the heuristics match, the `file` connector will use
> [`json`](../formats/json.md) as default format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When used as `from file <path> | ...` or `... | to file <path>`, VAST uses the following heuristics to infer the format based on the filename:

- If the filename is `eve.json`, use [`suricata`](../formats/suricata.md)
- If the file extension is `ndjson`, use [`json`](../formats/json.md).
- Otherwise, if the filename has an extension, try to use this as the format  (this will produce an error if there is no such format)
- If the filename has no extension (that includes the reserved path `-`), the default format is JSON.
```

Feel free to rewrite this as you see fit.
